about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## Surge


This is the synthesizer plug-in Surge which (@kurasu) Claes Johanson previously sold as a commercial product as the company vember audio.

As he is too busy with other projects and no longer wanted to put the effort into maintaining it across multiple platforms, he decided to give it new life as an open-source project.

It was originally released in 2005, and was one of Claes' first bigger projects. It is reliable and sounds great.

The codebase was migrated from before an unfinished 1.6 release, which improves on the last released 1.5.3 in a number of ways:

It uses a newer version of the VSTGUI framework
This has caused a lot of graphical bugs, with some still needing to be fixed
But it will enable the creation of a port for both 64-bit macOS and Linux
Support for VST3
Support for MPE
New analog mode for the ADSR envelopes
Surge currently builds with Windows and macOS (AudioUnit,VST2,VST3), and getting it to build on Linux again should be doable with some effort.

Daily macOS (64-bit, AU/VST2/VST3) builds available on the Slack

There is currently work going on to create an official release-page with installers for Windows 64-bit, macOS 64-bit and other formats.

System requirements
At least Pentium 4 CPU.
64-bit Windows or macOS.

Commit message:

about.md re-jig, removing talk of #macpackages and adding links, clarifying sentences.. (#20)
* removed slack link, added link to main site

* Clarifications

about.md split into smaller sentences, and updated.

* Update about.md

* Update about.md

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

## Surge

This is the synthesizer plug-in **Surge** which ([@kurasu](https://github.com/kurasu)) Claes Johanson previously sold as a commercial product via the company vember audio.

As he is too busy with [other projects](http://bitwig.com) and no longer wanted to put the effort into maintaining **Surge** across multiple platforms, he decided to give it new life as an open-source project.

It was originally released in 2005, and was one of Claes' first bigger projects. It is reliable and sounds great.

The codebase was migrated from before an unfinished 1.6 release, which improves on the last released 1.5.3 in a number of ways:

It uses a newer version of the VSTGUI framework. This has caused a lot of graphical bugs, with some still needing to be fixed. But it will enable the creation of a port for both 64-bit macOS and Linux.

- Support for VST3

- Support for MPE

- New analog mode for the ADSR envelopes

Surge currently builds with Windows and macOS (AudioUnit, VST2, VST3), and getting it to build on Linux again should be doable with some effort.

While **Surge** is an on-going effort, the newest builds and installers for Windows 64-bit and macOS 64-bit (VST2,VST3,AU) exist at [https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/releases/releases](https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/releases/releases)

The official website is gathering steam, too, check it out at [https://surge-synthesizer.github.io/](https://surge-synthesizer.github.io/)

# System requirements

At least Pentium 4 CPU.

64-bit Windows or macOS.
