nightly-xt.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Surge XT Beta
noheader: true
permalink: nightly_XT
---

This page allows you to download the Surge XT Beta. Surge XT installs with a new plugin ID,
so you can run and test it side by side with Surge 1.9.

See our draft nightly changelog for Surge XT <a href="nightlychangelog">here</a>.

As of this writing, we still have a few features we are working on, especially around completing
some of the screen reader support, but would like to get it in people's hands for testing.


You testing the beta is how the release gets good, though! We need and welcome your feedback, either on [GitHub](https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge/issues) or
[Discord](https://discord.gg/aFQDdMV). Also, even though the beta is in pretty good shape, it may still have bugs.
Please be careful, use a limiter, don't use in-ear headphones when experimenting and so forth, in case we
have made a DSP error and you run across it!

<b>Build: {% include latest_xt_version %} built at {% include latest_xt_build_time %}</b>

<a href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/releases-xt/releases/tag/Nightly">DOWNLOAD HERE!</a>


```
{% include git_nightly_xt_log_long_display %}
```


<!--
## Caveats

Please take a moment to understand the nightlies. We automatically build Surge on all our
platforms with every commit to our <a href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge">main</a> branch. This means
the code you are about to download may be minutes old. Depending on the pace of development at Surge Synth Team,
the code could contain bugs, new features which don't work, and may even end up making patches that
future Surge versions load differently, incorrectly, or not at all.


Our minimum advice if you use a nightly is to <b>use a limiter on the output</b>. We have made DSP errors in the nightlies before
which created nasty clicks and pops, in worst cases sudden blasts of noise.


But despite the above warning, we work really hard to have the nightlies be great. Most of Surge Synth Team runs the nightly in their
music-making environment, and the software is generally stable and robust. Also, using the nightly, finding a bug, and letting us
know is how bugs get fixed. For more on that, learn how to <a href="/feedback">contact us with questions and comments.</a>
-->

<!-- We keep the nightly changelog up to date by hand. It can lag the actual nightly by days or weeks, but is available
<a href="/nightlychangelog">here.</a> -->

Commit message:

XT 1.1 Beta
1. Upgrade the nightly page to use the newly minted tiny files
2. Put the beta on the home page including clap
3. Update copy in various spots

nightly-xt.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Surge XT 1.1 Beta
noheader: true
permalink: nightly_XT
---

We are planning a Surge XT 1.1 release around July 15. You can test the beta today by downloading
our nightly build from this page.

The XT 1.1 beta includes many fixes and new features, including support for the CLAP audio format, 
complete undo/redo in the editor, and many accessibility improvements. The draft 1.1 changelog is here <a href="nightlychangelog">here</a>.

<b>Download Beta: {% include latest_xt_version %} built at {% include latest_xt_build_time %}</b>
<ul>
<li><a href="{% include latest_xt_win_x64_url %}">Windows 64 bit installer</a></li>
<li><a href="{% include latest_xt_macos_url %}">macOS dmg</a></li>
<li><a href="{% include latest_xt_linux_x64_url %}">Linux .deb file (built on Ubuntu 20)</a></li>
<li> <a href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/releases-xt/releases/tag/Nightly">Find other formats and options here</a></li>
</ul>


You testing the beta is how the release gets good, though! We need and welcome your feedback, either on [GitHub](https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge/issues) or
[Discord](https://discord.gg/aFQDdMV). 

<!-- Also, even though the beta is in pretty good shape, it may still have bugs.
Please be careful, use a limiter, don't use in-ear headphones when experimenting and so forth, in case we
have made a DSP error and you run across it!
-->




Recent Changes:

```
{% include git_nightly_xt_recent_five %}
```


<!--
## Caveats

Please take a moment to understand the nightlies. We automatically build Surge on all our
platforms with every commit to our <a href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge">main</a> branch. This means
the code you are about to download may be minutes old. Depending on the pace of development at Surge Synth Team,
the code could contain bugs, new features which don't work, and may even end up making patches that
future Surge versions load differently, incorrectly, or not at all.


Our minimum advice if you use a nightly is to <b>use a limiter on the output</b>. We have made DSP errors in the nightlies before
which created nasty clicks and pops, in worst cases sudden blasts of noise.


But despite the above warning, we work really hard to have the nightlies be great. Most of Surge Synth Team runs the nightly in their
music-making environment, and the software is generally stable and robust. Also, using the nightly, finding a bug, and letting us
know is how bugs get fixed. For more on that, learn how to <a href="/feedback">contact us with questions and comments.</a>
-->

<!-- We keep the nightly changelog up to date by hand. It can lag the actual nightly by days or weeks, but is available
<a href="/nightlychangelog">here.</a> -->
