skin-library.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Surge XT Skin Library
noheader: true
permalink: skin-library
---

Many folks in the Surge XT community make skins beyond the few we ship with. This page contains a set of curated
skins from community designers available for you to download.

To install a skin:

1. In **Surge 1.9**, unzip the skin, navigate to your user data folder, and place the skin in the "Skins" subfolder (if it doesn't exist, create it manually)
2. In **Surge XT**, unzip the skin (you can even skip this step if you want!) and drag it onto a running instance of Surge XT

Although we endeavour to make sure these skins are working, and also try to make sure they contain no inappropriate content,
please use them at your own risk and understand that support for errors in them may be less available than for the factory skins.

<div markdown="0" class="skin-container">
  
<!-- Royal Surge XT -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/royal-surge-xt.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/royal-surge-xt.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/royal-surge-xt.png" alt="Royal Surge XT"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/royal-surge-xt.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Royal Surge XT</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by <a href="https://vogerdesign.com">Voger Design</a></span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Royal Surge XT -->

<!-- Sober -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/sober.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/sober.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/sober.png" alt="Sober"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/sober.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Sober</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by <a href="https://twitter.com/TheRedWaxPolice">The Red Wax Police</a></span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Sober -->

<!-- Funtime -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/funtime.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/funtime.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/funtime.png" alt="Funtime"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/funtime.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Funtime</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by <a href="https://twitter.com/TheRedWaxPolice">The Red Wax Police</a></span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Funtime -->

<!-- Classic Delux -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/classic-delux.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/classic-delux.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/classic-delux.png" alt="Classic Delux"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/classic-delux.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Classic Delux</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by Slowboat</span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Classic Delux -->

<!-- Modern Dark -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark.png" alt="Modern Dark"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/modern-dark.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Modern Dark</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by RovingEye</span><br>
<span class="skin-button"><a href="https://github.com/rovingeye/surge-skins"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/github.png" height="20%">View on GitHub</a></span>
</div>
<!-- END Modern Dark -->

<!-- Modern Dark Blue -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark-blue.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark-blue.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark-blue.png" alt="Modern Dark Blue"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/modern-dark-blue.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Modern Dark Blue</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by RovingEye</span><br>
<span class="skin-button"><a href="https://github.com/rovingeye/surge-skins"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/github.png" height="20%">View on GitHub</a></span>
</div>
<!-- END Modern Dark Blue -->

<!-- Dark Purple -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/dark-purple.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/dark-purple.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/dark-purple.png" alt="Dark Purple"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/dark-purple.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Dark Purple</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by RovingEye</span><br>
<span class="skin-button"><a href="https://github.com/rovingeye/surge-skins"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/github.png" height="20%">View on GitHub</a></span>
</div>
<!-- END Dark Purple -->

</div>

Commit message:

Update skin installing instructions to pertain only to XT

skin-library.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Surge XT Skin Library
noheader: true
permalink: skin-library
---

Many folks in the Surge XT community make skins beyond the few we ship with. This page contains a set of curated
skins from community designers available for you to download.

Installing a skin in Surge XT is very simple - simply drag the downloaded ZIP file onto a running instance of Surge XT, and you're done!

Although we endeavour to make sure these skins are working, and also try to make sure they contain no inappropriate content,
please use them at your own risk and understand that support for errors in them may be less available than for the factory skins.

<div markdown="0" class="skin-container">
  
<!-- Royal Surge XT -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/royal-surge-xt.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/royal-surge-xt.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/royal-surge-xt.png" alt="Royal Surge XT"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/royal-surge-xt.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Royal Surge XT</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by <a href="https://vogerdesign.com">Voger Design</a></span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Royal Surge XT -->

<!-- Sober -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/sober.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/sober.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/sober.png" alt="Sober"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/sober.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Sober</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by <a href="https://twitter.com/TheRedWaxPolice">The Red Wax Police</a></span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Sober -->

<!-- Funtime -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/funtime.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/funtime.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/funtime.png" alt="Funtime"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/funtime.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Funtime</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by <a href="https://twitter.com/TheRedWaxPolice">The Red Wax Police</a></span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Funtime -->

<!-- Classic Delux -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/classic-delux.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/classic-delux.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/classic-delux.png" alt="Classic Delux"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/classic-delux.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Classic Delux</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by Slowboat</span><br>
</div>
<!-- END Classic Delux -->

<!-- Modern Dark -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark.png" alt="Modern Dark"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/modern-dark.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Modern Dark</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by RovingEye</span><br>
<span class="skin-button"><a href="https://github.com/rovingeye/surge-skins"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/github.png" height="20%">View on GitHub</a></span>
</div>
<!-- END Modern Dark -->

<!-- Modern Dark Blue -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark-blue.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark-blue.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/modern-dark-blue.png" alt="Modern Dark Blue"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/modern-dark-blue.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Modern Dark Blue</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by RovingEye</span><br>
<span class="skin-button"><a href="https://github.com/rovingeye/surge-skins"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/github.png" height="20%">View on GitHub</a></span>
</div>
<!-- END Modern Dark Blue -->

<!-- Dark Purple -->
<div markdown="0" class="skin-zoom">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/dark-purple.png">&#128269;&#65038; Full Preview</a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-image">
<a href="/assets/skin-library/images/dark-purple.png"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/dark-purple.png" alt="Dark Purple"></a>
</div>
<div markdown="0" class="skin-text">
<a class="skin-title" href="https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge-extra-content/releases/download/skin-library/dark-purple.surge-skin.zip">&#11015; Dark Purple</a><br>
<span class="skin-author">by RovingEye</span><br>
<span class="skin-button"><a href="https://github.com/rovingeye/surge-skins"><img src="/assets/skin-library/images/github.png" height="20%">View on GitHub</a></span>
</div>
<!-- END Dark Purple -->

</div>
