src/content/manual_xt/02_installing_or_building.mdx, before:

---
title: Installing or Building Surge XT
slug: installing-or-building
order: 2
---

# Installing or Building Surge XT

_Audio Units, AU is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc
VST is a trademark of Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH_

Surge XT's installer is available at [https://surge-synthesizer.github.io](https://surge-synthesizer.github.io).

## Windows

On the Windows platform, Surge XT is delivered as both a 32 or 64-bit VST3 and CLAP plug-in instrument.

The file name for the VST3 is `Surge XT.vst3`. For CLAP, it is `Surge XT.clap`

System Requirements:

-   Windows 7 or newer
-   A reasonably fast CPU (Pentium 4/Athlon 64 or above)
-   At least 4GB of RAM
-   VST-compatible host application

In addition, to use the 64-bit version on Windows you need the following:

-   A CPU supporting the x64 (AMD64/EM64T) instruction set
-   A **64-bit** version of Windows
-   An application capable of hosting 64-bit VST plug-ins

Both the VST3 and CLAP versions of the plug-in should be automatically installed in their default plug-in location and
should be found by your host application, as long as it supports VST3 or CLAP. However, the Windows version also comes
with a **portable mode**:

-   Portable Mode allows you to store assets in the same directory as the Surge XT VST3 or CLAP.
-   If Surge XT is installed in a folder and in that same folder there is a directory called `SurgeXTData`, Surge XT will use that for factory data rather than `%PROGRAMDATA%\Surge XT`.
-   If in that same folder there is a directory called `SurgeXTUserData`, Surge XT will use that for user data rather than `%DOCUMENTS%\Surge XT`.
-   Either none, one, or both of those folders can be there. Surge XT will fall back to the defaults if they are not present.
    You can always see your data paths in the [About screen](#about-surge-xt).

## macOS

On Mac, Surge XT is delivered as a 64-bit Plug-in Instrument for the Audio
Unit (AU), VST3, and CLAP plug-in interfaces.

System Requirements:

-   Mac OS X 10.11 or newer
-   A 64-bit x86 Intel or ARM Apple Silicon CPU
-   At least 4GB of RAM
-   64-bit AU or VST-compatible host application

To install, run the packaged installer. You will be given the option of automatically installing the
AU `Surge XT.component` and the VST3 or CLAP to their correct locations.
The factory patches and wavetables will also be automatically installed.

Running the packaged installer will install Surge for all of the users of your
Mac.

## Linux

On Linux, Surge is available as a 64-bit VST3 and CLAP in the form of a **deb** and **RPM** package.

The system requirements can be hard to determine, as there are a lot of distributions out there and other factors.
However, the following information might be good to know:

-   The installation package on **Surge XT's website** is in the form of a Debian package
-   The distribution package is built on Ubuntu 18.04
-   The packages required are listed in the source and in the deb file

**Note:** Some actions in Surge XT are done by doing Alt + Drag or scroll wheel. On certain Linux distributions,
those shortcuts and gestures may cause conflicts between Surge and the desktop environment. We decided we couldn't
give up alt-drag for all platforms because one window manager in one distribution used it by default. Therefore,
it's often possible to disable that global gesture in desktop environments, and would be the easiest way to solve
that possible issue.

## Building from Source

If you would like to build Surge XT from source, see the instructions on
[our Github repository](https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge).

## Installing Alongside Older Versions

Although Surge XT represents an evolution of Surge, Surge XT is an entirely new plugin. This means that you can
effortlessly install it alongside Surge 1.9 or earlier, and you will need to keep Surge 1.9 installed in order
to open existing projects containing older versions of Surge.

## Locations

### Windows

The patch library and wavetables are at `C:ProgramData\Surge XT`.
The user patches are at `C:\Users\your username\My Documents\Surge XT`.

### macOS

The patch library and wavetables are at `/Library/Application Support/Surge XT`.
The user patches are at `~/Documents/Surge XT`.

### Linux

The patch library and wavetables are at `/usr/share/surge-xt` with a standard install.
The user patches are at `~/Documents/Surge XT`. This directory will be created once you store a patch
or change the user default settings for the first time.

Note: These locations can be changed in Surge's menu (see [Data Folders](#data-folders)).

If you put user content in the factory folder or otherwise change it, future installers will erase it.
Surge XT's installers never touch anything in the user area.

So, if you want to install a custom skin, set of patches, or otherwise add things to Surge,
put them in your user data folder instead of here, or risk losing them when you upgrade.

## Playing Your First Note

Surge XT is most comfortably used with a [DAW](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_audio_workstation), or a physical device such as a keyboard. To get started however, you can make
use of the virtual keyboard (see [Workflow](#workflow)), which can be opened from `menu -> workflow -> virtual keyboard`, or `alt+k`.

Each note you play will be simulated based on the current Patch, so it's the perfect way to experiment before tackling a more complex setup.

Commit message:

Added information for XT Standalone in the manual

src/content/manual_xt/02_installing_or_building.mdx, after:

---
title: Installing or Building Surge XT
slug: installing-or-building
order: 2
---

# Installing or Building Surge XT

_Audio Units, AU is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc
VST is a trademark of Steinberg Media Technologies GmbH_

Surge XT's installer is available at [https://surge-synthesizer.github.io](https://surge-synthesizer.github.io).

## Windows

On the Windows platform, Surge XT is delivered as both a 32 or 64-bit VST3, CLAP plug-in instrument and as a standalone synthesizer.

The file name for the VST3 is `Surge XT.vst3`. For CLAP, it is `Surge XT.clap`, and the standalone is an executable called `Surge XT.exe`

System Requirements:

-   Windows 7 or newer
-   A reasonably fast CPU (Pentium 4/Athlon 64 or above)
-   At least 4GB of RAM
-   VST-compatible host application

In addition, to use the 64-bit version on Windows you need the following:

-   A CPU supporting the x64 (AMD64/EM64T) instruction set
-   A **64-bit** version of Windows
-   An application capable of hosting 64-bit VST plug-ins

Both the VST3 and CLAP versions of the plug-in should be automatically installed in their default plug-in location and
should be found by your host application, as long as it supports VST3 or CLAP. However, the Windows version also comes
with a **portable mode**:

-   Portable Mode allows you to store assets in the same directory as the Surge XT VST3 or CLAP.
-   If Surge XT is installed in a folder and in that same folder there is a directory called `SurgeXTData`, Surge XT will use that for factory data rather than `%PROGRAMDATA%\Surge XT`.
-   If in that same folder there is a directory called `SurgeXTUserData`, Surge XT will use that for user data rather than `%DOCUMENTS%\Surge XT`.
-   Either none, one, or both of those folders can be there. Surge XT will fall back to the defaults if they are not present.
    You can always see your data paths in the [About screen](#about-surge-xt).

## macOS

On Mac, Surge XT is delivered as a 64-bit Plug-in Instrument for the Audio
Unit (AU), VST3, and CLAP plug-in interfaces. It is also offered as a standalone application.

System Requirements:

-   Mac OS X 10.11 or newer
-   A 64-bit x86 Intel or ARM Apple Silicon CPU
-   At least 4GB of RAM
-   64-bit AU or VST-compatible host application

To install, run the packaged installer. You will be given the option of automatically installing the
AU `Surge XT.component` and the VST3 or CLAP to their correct locations.
The factory patches and wavetables will also be automatically installed.

Running the packaged installer will install Surge for all of the users of your
Mac.

## Linux

On Linux, Surge is available as a 64-bit VST3 and CLAP in the form of a **deb** and **RPM** package.
It is also offered as a standalone application.

The system requirements can be hard to determine, as there are a lot of distributions out there and other factors.
However, the following information might be good to know:

-   The installation package on **Surge XT's website** is in the form of a Debian package
-   The distribution package is built on Ubuntu 18.04
-   The packages required are listed in the source and in the deb file

**Note:** Some actions in Surge XT are done by doing Alt + Drag or scroll wheel. On certain Linux distributions,
those shortcuts and gestures may cause conflicts between Surge and the desktop environment. We decided we couldn't
give up alt-drag for all platforms because one window manager in one distribution used it by default. Therefore,
it's often possible to disable that global gesture in desktop environments, and would be the easiest way to solve
that possible issue.

## Building from Source

If you would like to build Surge XT from source, see the instructions on
[our Github repository](https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/surge).

## Installing Alongside Older Versions

Although Surge XT represents an evolution of Surge, Surge XT is an entirely new plug-in. This means that you can
effortlessly install it alongside Surge 1.9 or earlier, and you will need to keep Surge 1.9 installed in order
to open existing projects containing older versions of Surge.

## Standalone Version Options

Along with the usual plug-in formats available in the installer, Surge XT can also be ran as a standalone executable on all 3 operating
systems specified above. The standalone version includes several additional options available in the title bar on the top-left of the
interface. Such options are settings regarding MIDI and audio inputs and outputs configuration, saving and opening state files for the
synth, as well as resetting to the default state.

In addition, the standalone has a BPM setting to the left of the virtual keyboard towards the bottom of the interface. This comes in useful
for the [Tempo-Sync](#tempo-sync) option found in context menus of most time-related parameters.

## Locations

### Windows

The patch library and wavetables are at `C:ProgramData\Surge XT`.
The user patches are at `C:\Users\your username\My Documents\Surge XT`.

### macOS

The patch library and wavetables are at `/Library/Application Support/Surge XT`.
The user patches are at `~/Documents/Surge XT`.

### Linux

The patch library and wavetables are at `/usr/share/surge-xt` with a standard install.
The user patches are at `~/Documents/Surge XT`. This directory will be created once you store a patch
or change the user default settings for the first time.

Note: These locations can be changed in Surge's menu (see [Data Folders](#data-folders)).

If you put user content in the factory folder or otherwise change it, future installers will erase it.
Surge XT's installers never touch anything in the user area.

So, if you want to install a custom skin, set of patches, or otherwise add things to Surge,
put them in your user data folder instead of here, or risk losing them when you upgrade.

## Playing Your First Note

Surge XT is most comfortably used with a [DAW](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_audio_workstation), or a physical device such as a keyboard. To get started however, you can make
use of the virtual keyboard (see [Workflow](#workflow)), which can be opened from `menu -> workflow -> virtual keyboard`, or `alt+k`.

Each note you play will be simulated based on the current Patch, so it's the perfect way to experiment before tackling a more complex setup.
